how to clean a fireplace cleaning a
fireplace can be as much fun as filling
your bicuspids with a wood rasp but
homey comforts and family safety come at
a price
you will need safety goggles a paper
mask old clothes a garbage pail trash
bags drop cloths a whisk broom a shop
vacuum a nylon scrub brush warm water 1
cup of chlorine bleach rubber gloves a
large bucket rags and towels newspapers
and glass cleaner optional knee pads an
oven cleaner step 1 put on your
protective eyewear paper mask and old
clothing with a large pail lined with a
garbage bag by the fireplace and the
drop cloth in place extract large debris
from the fireplace wear kneepads to
reduce discomfort step 2 sweep out the
ash and soot and scoop into the garbage
bag vacuum residual soot and ashes out
of the fireplace with a shop vacuum
avoid using a home vacuum to clean the
fireplace the filter may clog step 3
drape drop cloths against the interior
walls and scrape and brush off any
remaining flakes transfer the waste to
the trash bag step 4 mix one gallon of
warm water and bleach in the bucket
scrub away the last grime using the
brush tip and collecting everything on
the drop cloth
step 5 scour the fireplace floor with
the cleaning solution soaked up the
solution using paper towels discard in
the garbage bag and wipe up any
remaining water with old rags
step 6 take the fireplace grates outside
place grates on layers of newspaper and
clean with oven cleaner or bleach and
water
step 7 use glass cleaner and newspapers
to clean glass fireplace doors polish
any exterior met when finished clean the
entire area with fresh water and dirt
free towels and let
did you know air inside your home laden
with mold dander radon and volatile
organic compounds can be up to ten times
worse than outdoor air pollution